---
layout: page
title: Plugins
date: 2025-02-18 10:00:29.000000000 +01:00
permalink: "/plugins/"
nav_group: main
nav_order: 2
---

Plugins
=======

Extend and integrate ActiveScaffold functionality effortlessly.

Plugins
-------

Plugins are extensions that add new features directly to ActiveScaffold. They enhance its core functionality by introducing tools like batch processing, advanced search, and custom interfaces such as signature pads or cameras.

Plugins are self-contained and work exclusively with ActiveScaffold to expand its capabilities without requiring additional dependencies.


### [ActiveScaffold Batch](/plugins/activescaffoldbatch/)

This plugin enables batch actions, allowing users to perform operations on multiple records simultaneously.
Perfect for administrative tasks requiring bulk updates or deletions.


### [ActiveScaffold Sortable](/plugins/activescaffoldsortable/)

Allows users to drag and drop records within a list to reorder them easily.
Ideal for applications requiring customizable ordering, such as task prioritization.


### [ActiveScaffold Export](/plugins/activescaffoldexport/)

Add export functionality to your ActiveScaffold interfaces, supporting formats like CSV and Excel.
It's an essential tool for generating reports or sharing data with external systems.


### [ActiveScaffold SignaturePad](/plugins/activescaffoldsignaturepad/)

Integrates a signature pad into forms, enabling users to capture signatures directly within your application.


### [ActiveScaffold Camera](/plugins/activescaffoldcamera/)

Adds a camera interface to forms, letting users take snapshots directly from their devices and upload them.


### [ActiveScaffold Duplicate](/plugins/activescaffoldduplicate/)

Adds an action to clone records, and support to clone rows in subforms.


### [ActiveScaffold ConfigList](/plugins/activescaffoldconfiglist/)

Gives users the ability to customize which columns are visible in their interface, making data views more flexible.

[Get Plugins](https://github.com/orgs/activescaffold/repositories?q=visibility%3Apublic+archived%3Afalse)

Why use Plugins and Bridges?
----------------------------

### Expand Features

Add powerful new functionalities like batch processing, advanced search, and file uploads.

### Integrate Seamlessly

Connect with popular Rails gems like Devise, Paperclip, and CarrierWave.

### Save Time

Avoid reinventing the wheel by leveraging pre-built extensions.

### Customize Easily

Tailor plugins and bridges to fit the unique requirements of your application.

How to Get Started
------------------

1. Add the plugin or bridge gem to your Gemfile. For example:
```
gem 'active_scaffold_export'
```

2. Run bundle install to install the dependencies:
```
bundle install
```

3. Configure the plugin or bridge in your application according to the documentation.

4. Restart your Rails server and enjoy the new features.
