---
layout: page
title: Bridges
date: 2025-01-22 13:40:18.000000000 +01:00
permalink: "/bridges/"
nav_group: main
nav_order: 1
hero_heading: Bridges
hero_lead: Extend and integrate ActiveScaffold functionality effortlessly.
---

Bridges are connectors that integrate ActiveScaffold with other Rails gems. They enable seamless communication between ActiveScaffold and external libraries, making it easier to add features like rich text editor, file uploads, authorization or JS widgets such as RecordSelect or Chosen.

Unlike plugins, bridges depend on both ActiveScaffold and the external gem they connect with, working together to provide extended functionality.

### Paperclip Bridge​

Provides seamless support for file attachments using Paperclip, enabling users to upload and manage files directly through ActiveScaffold.

### CarrierWave Bridge​

Integrates CarrierWave for managing file uploads, allowing developers to handle file storage and display effortlessly.

### Dragonfly Bridge

Supports Dragonfly for dynamic asset processing, including image resizing, encoding, and other on-the-fly operations.

Why use Bridges?
----------------

### Expand Features

Add powerful new functionalities like tracking changes, authorization and file uploads.

### Integrate Seamlessly

Connect with popular Rails gems like CanCanCan, Paperclip and PaperTrail.

### Save Time

Avoid reinventing the wheel by leveraging pre-built extensions.

### Customize Easily

Tailor bridges to fit the unique requirements of your application.

How to Get Started
------------------

1. Add the bridge gem to your Gemfile. For example:
   {% highlight ruby -%}
   gem 'paperclip'
   {%- endhighlight %}

{:start="2"}
2. Run bundle install to install the dependencies:
   {% highlight shell -%}
   bundle install
   {%- endhighlight %}

{:start="3"}
3. Configure the gem in your application according to the documentation.

4. Restart your Rails server and enjoy the new features.